Blog post about MSc seminars (#64)
compgeolab/website: news/msc-seminar-2025.md

---

> title: "MSc Seminar Presentaions"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "2025 MSc seminar presentaions at IAG - USP"
```

date: 2025-04-23
author: Yago Moreira Castro & Arthur Siqueira de Macêdo
---

{%- import "macros.html" as macros %}

> 
> # MSc Seminars

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The `title` is already the h1 tag.

> The MSc seminar presentation is a formal step in the graduate program used to evaluate the progress of research projects after approximately one year of work. It allows the department and the student to assess whether the initial objectives are being met, if the timeline remains feasible, and what adjustments may be necessary. The presentation includes a summary of the project's goals, methodology, and partial results. Feedback received during the seminar supports the planning of next steps and helps ensure the project stays aligned with academic requirements and deadlines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MSc seminar presentations at the [Institute of Astronomy, Geophysics and Atmospheric Sciences (IAG)](https://www.iag.usp.br/), part of the University of São Paulo, is a formal step in the graduate program used to evaluate the progress of research projects after approximately one year of work. It allows the department and the student to assess whether the initial objectives are being met, if the timeline remains feasible, and what adjustments may be necessary. The presentation includes a summary of the project's goals, methodology, and partial results. Feedback received during the seminar supports the planning of next steps and helps ensure the project stays aligned with academic requirements and deadlines.
```

Doesn't have to bold since the hyperlink will already highlight it.

> ## Arthur

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Arthur

```

> On April 4th, 2025, Arthur presented his MSc seminar at the [**Institute of Astronomy, Geophysics and Atmospheric Sciences (IAG-USP)**](https://www.iag.usp.br/), part of the University of São Paulo. My research, titled **Integration of airborne geophysics datasets with equivalent sources on the sphere**, focuses on developing and applying novel methods for integrating airborne geophysical data using equivalent source techniques on a spherical surface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On April 4th, 2025, I presented my MSc seminar titled **"Integration of airborne geophysics datasets with equivalent sources on the sphere"**. My research focuses on developing and applying novel methods for integrating airborne geophysical data using equivalent source techniques on a spherical surface.
```

If using "my", then be consistent. Reference to IAG is repeated in both sections (and inconsistently) so moving it to the opening paragraph.

The motivation behind this work lies in the increasing availability of regional and global geophysical surveys, which often differ in resolution, coverage, and acquisition parameters. Traditional approaches struggle to reconcile these differences, especially when working at continental scales. By using equivalent sources defined on a spherical geometry, my methodology enables more consistent and accurate integration of these datasets, preserving the physical meaning of the data. Throughout the project, I implemented and tested this approach on synthetic datasets, demonstrating its potential to support applications in geological mapping and crustal structure studies.

> {{ macros.figure("../images/news/msc-presentation-arthur.png", caption = "Arthur presenting his MSc seminar at IAG-USP 2025", alt="A man in a maroon T-shirt is giving a presentation in a classroom, pointing to a slide projected on a screen. The slide discusses the acquisition of magnetometry data through airborne surveys and shows two maps with magnetic data, one labeled **INTERPOLAÇÃO** Several people are seated, and a microphone is placed on a chair in front of the presenter. A monitor on the right displays a video call with the same slide visible." ) }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{ macros.figure("../images/news/msc-presentation-arthur.png", caption="Arthur presenting his MSc seminar at IAG-USP 2025", alt="A man in a maroon T-shirt is giving a presentation in a classroom, pointing to a slide projected on a screen. The slide discusses the acquisition of magnetometry data through airborne surveys and shows two maps with magnetic data, one labeled "INTERPOLAÇÃO" Several people are seated, and a microphone is placed on a chair in front of the presenter. A monitor on the right displays a video call with the same slide visible." ) }}
```

No markup on alt text.

> ## Yago

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Yago

```

> On April 15 2025, Yago gave a MSc seminar presentation at the [IAG-USP](https://www.iag.usp.br/), presenting the development progress of [Magali](https://github.com/fatiando/magali), a Python library for magnetic microscopy data processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On April 15 2025, Yago presented the development progress of [Magali](https://www.fatiando.org/magali), a Python library for magnetic microscopy data processing.
```

Better to use a link we control whenever possible.

> Magali is designed as an open-source computational tool for **magnetic microscopy data analysis**, featuring:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Magali is designed as an open-source computational tool for **magnetic microscopy data analysis**, featuring:

```

> - Data transformation capabilities
> - Automated particle identification in microscopy images
> - Magnetic dipole moment inversion algorithms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Data transformation capabilities.
- Automated particle identification in microscopy images.
- Magnetic dipole moment inversion algorithms.
```

> Check out the presentation [here](https://yagomcastro.github.io/magali-msc-qualification/).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Move below with the link to the repository.

{{ macros.figure("../images/news/msc-qualification-yago.jpeg", caption = "Yago presenting Magali at IAG-USP 2025 MSc seminar", alt="A man stands at a podium in a classroom, delivering a presentation. He is wearing a white t-shirt and glasses, and is positioned behind a wooden desk with a laptop and water bottle. On the projection screen behind him is a slide displaying the word Magali alongside a circular red-and-teal logo. The classroom has a drop ceiling with fluorescent lights, a green chalkboard on the right, and several cables extending across the floor in front of the presenter." ) }}

> ### Availability
> 
> The [presentation materials](https://github.com/YagoMCastro/magali-msc-qualification) are publicly available under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the [presentation in HTML format](https://yagomcastro.github.io/magali-msc-qualification/). The [presentation materials](https://github.com/YagoMCastro/magali-msc-qualification) are publicly available under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en):
```

Don't use "here" or "link" as text for hyperlinks. It's not good for accessibility.

> 
> The research team welcomes feedback and collaboration proposals from interested researchers in the field of magnetic microscopy and computational geophysics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
